In React, "key reconciliation" means the process of matching elements in a list with their corresponding keys when the list is updated. This is an important concept when working with lists of elements in React, as it allows React to efficiently update the list and minimize the number of DOM (Document Object Model) operations that are required.

In order to reconcile a list of elements in React, you need to specify a unique "key" for each element in the list. This key should be a stable identifier that does not change when the element is updated.

When the list is updated, React will use the keys to match the elements in the new list with the elements in the previous list, and will only update the elements that have changed.

Here's a simple example of key reconciliation in action:

```
import React from 'react';

function List({ items }) {
return (
    <ul>
    {items.map(item => (<li key={item.id}>{item.name}</li>))}
    </ul>);
}
```

In this example, we have a list of items that are rendered as a `ul` element with a series of `li` elements. Each `li` element has a unique key prop that is set to the id of the item. When the list is updated, React will use the id values to reconcile the elements in the list, and will only update the `li` elements that have changed.

Key reconciliation is an important concept in React, as it allows React to efficiently update lists of elements and minimize the number of DOM operations that are required. By using unique keys for each element in the list, you can ensure that React can efficiently update the list when it changes.

It saves a lot of rerendering, and confusion about where an added element is situated among its siblings.
