The `crossorigin` attribute is an optional attribute that can be added to a `<script>` element in an HTML file when adding a script from a third-party source, such as a Content Delivery Network (CDN). The crossorigin attribute is used to specify how the script should be fetched, and what the server should include in the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header when the script is loaded from a different origin.

The crossorigin attribute even has two possible values: anonymous and use-credentials.

- If the crossorigin attribute is set to 'anonymous', the server will not include any user credentials in the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header. This is useful when the script does not need to access any sensitive user data, and the server wants to prevent user credentials from being sent with the request.

- If the crossorigin attribute is set to 'use-credentials', the server will include user credentials in the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header. This is useful when the script needs to access sensitive user data, and the server wants to allow the script to do so.

For example, the following `<script>` element includes a React library from a CDN and specifies that the script should be fetched anonymously:

```
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react@16/umd/react.production.min.js" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
```

This way, the server will not include any user credentials in the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header when the script is loaded.

The crossorigin attribute is not required when including a script from a CDN, but it can be useful in certain cases to specify how the script should be fetched and what the server should include in the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header.
