In React, the `super(props)` statement is used in the `constructor` of a class-based component to call the constructor of the component's parent class (which is React.Component) and to pass the props argument to the parent's constructor.

The `props` argument is an object that contains the properties that are passed to the component when it is rendered. By passing the `props` argument to the parent class's constructor, the component is able to access the properties passed to it, and use them to render its content.

Here's an example of a simple component that uses the `super(props)` statement in its `constructor`:

```
class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  constructor(props) {
    super(props);
  }

  render() {
    return <h1>Hello, {this.props.name}</h1>;
  }
}
```

Here, the component is defined as a class called `MyComponent` that extends React.Component. Inside the `constructor`, `super(props)` is called to pass the props argument to the parent class's constructor.

Then, in the component's `render()` method, the component uses the `this.props.name` property to render a greeting message. This component can be used like this:

```
<MyComponent name="John" />
```

This will output `"Hello, John"` on the page.

Interestingly if you forget to call `super(props)` in the `constructor`, it will throw an error because `this.props` will not be defined in the component class.

So basically, by calling `super(props)` in the constructor, we are allowing the component to access the props passed to it by its parent component, and also access `this.props` variable inside the component class.
