The dependency array in the useEffect() hook is used to control when the effect function is executed. React will re-run the effect function whenever the values in the dependency array change.

There are different behaviors of useEffect() depending on the different values put in its dependency array:

### Empty dependency array

If the dependency array is empty, the effect function will be executed on every render of the component, including the first render. This is similar to the behavior of componentDidMount and componentDidUpdate lifecycle methods in class-based components.

```
useEffect(() => {
    console.log('Effect function executed!');
}, []);
```

### No dependency array

If no dependency array is provided, the effect function will be executed on every render of the component, including the first render. This can lead to performance issues if the effect function has a heavy computation.

```
useEffect(() => {
    console.log('Effect function executed!');
});
```

### Dependency array with variables

If the dependency array includes variables, the effect function will be executed whenever the variables in the dependency array change. In this case, the effect function will only execute when the dependency variables change between renders.

```
const [count, setCount] = useState(0);
useEffect(() => {
    console.log(`Effect function executed! count: ${count}`);
}, [count]);
```

### Dependency array with props

If the dependency array includes props, the effect function will be executed whenever the props in the dependency array change. In this case, the effect function will only execute when the dependency props change between renders.

```
const MyComponent = ({data}) => {
useEffect(() => {
    console.log(`Effect function executed! data: ${data}`);
}, [data]);
//...
};
```

It's important to note that if you include a variable in the dependency array that is not used inside the effect function, React will re-run the effect function whenever that variable changes, even though it doesn't affect the logic inside the effect function. This can lead to unnecessary re-renders and performance issues.

It's also important to note that if you include a variable in the dependency array that is not a primitive type, such as an object or an array, React will re-run the effect function whenever the reference to that object or array changes, not just when the contents of the object or array change. In this case, it's recommended to use the useEffect hook with the comparison function or use the useMemo or useCallback hooks to only re-run the effect function when the specific properties of the object or array change.

So basically, the dependency array in the useEffect() hook is used to control when the effect function is executed. You need to be careful when defining the dependencies, as it can have a big impact on the performance of your application and the desired behavior of your component.
