Browserslist is a tool that is used to share the target browsers and Node.js versions that your project supports. It is commonly used in conjunction with build tools like Babel and Autoprefixer to automatically determine which features and polyfills to include in your code, based on the specified target browsers.

Browserslist is configured through a configuration file called .browserslistrc, which is placed in the root directory of your project. The file should contain a list of the target browsers and Node.js versions that your project supports, in the form of queries.

Here is how a .browserslistrc file looks like:
`

\>1%
last 2 versions
not dead
`

This file specifies that the project should support all browsers that have a global market share of at least 1%, as well as the last two versions of each browser. It also specifies that the project should not support "dead" browsers, which are browsers that are no longer being developed or maintained.

`Browserslist` queries are based on the data from the [Can I Use](https://caniuse.com/) website, which provides up-to-date information on the support for various browser features. By using `Browserslist`, you can ensure that your project is compatible with the latest versions of browsers, while still being able to support older browsers if necessary, like say for a government web-app.

Overall, `Browserslist` is a useful tool for managing the target browsers and Node.js versions for your project, and it can help to ensure that your code is compatible with the latest versions of popular browsers.
