`npx` is a command line tool that is included with NPM. It allows you to run JS packages that are installed locally or globally in your project.

To use `npx`, you simply prefix the command that you want to run with "npx". For example, if you have a package called "my-package" that you want to run, you can use the following command:

`npx my-package`

`npx` will automatically install the "my-package" package, if it is not already installed, and then run it with the specified arguments. Once the command has finished running, `npx` will automatically uninstall the package to clean up after itself. The 'x' at the end of 'npx' stands for 'eXecuting' the package.

It allows you to run packages without having to install them globally on your system. This can be useful if you only need to use a package for a specific project, as it allows you to manage the dependencies for your project more easily, by adding `-D` in the command line, which stands for 'Development'.

`npx` can also be used to run scripts that are defined in the "scripts" field of a package's `package.json` file. So, if your package has a script called `build` defined in the `scripts` field, you can run it using the following command:

`npx npm run build`

`npx` can also be used to run executables from globally installed packages. For example, if you have a package called "my-cli" that includes a command line interface, you can run it using the following command:

`npx my-cli`

It is useful for running packages and scripts without having to install them globally on your system.
